Update Enterprise optimize Flux query doc (#2750)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/flux/optimize-queries.md

---
title: Optimize Flux queries
description: >
  Optimize your Flux queries to reduce their memory and compute (CPU) requirements.
weight: 4
menu:
  enterprise_influxdb_1_9:
    parent: Flux
canonical: /influxdb/cloud/query-data/optimize-queries/
aliases:
  - /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/flux/guides/optimize-queries
---

Optimize your Flux queries to reduce their memory and compute (CPU) requirements.

- [Start queries with pushdowns](#start-queries-with-pushdowns)

>   - [Avoid processing filters inline](#avoid-processing-filters-inline)

Reviewer: extra space here?

>   - [Avoid processing filters inline](#avoid-processing-filters-inline)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Avoid processing filters inline](#avoid-processing-filters-inline)
```

| **window()** \|> **sum()**     | {{< icon "check" >}} |

{{% caption %}}
{{< req "\*" >}} **filter()** only pushes down when all parameter values are static.
See [Avoid processing filters inline](#avoid-processing-filters-inline).
{{% /caption %}}

Use pushdown functions and function combinations at the beginning of your query.
Once a non-pushdown function runs, Flux pulls data into memory and runs all
subsequent operations there.

##### Pushdown functions in use
```js
from(bucket: "db/rp")
  |> range(start: -1h)                       //
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r.sensor == "abc123") //
  |> group(columns: ["_field", "host"])      // Pushed to the data source
  |> aggregateWindow(every: 5m, fn: max)     //
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._value >= 90.0)     //

  |> top(n: 10)                              // Run in memory
```

### Avoid processing filters inline
Avoid using mathematic operations or string manipulation inline to define data filters.
Processing filter values inline prevents `filter()` from pushing its operation down
to the underlying data source, so data returned by the
previous function loads into memory.
This often results in a significant performance hit.

> For example, the following query uses [dashboard variables](/influxdb/v2.0/visualize-data/variables/)

Reviewer: update link to -> /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: Do these exist in 1.x?

Author: I'll update the example to not use dashboard variables. In 1.x land, these would be Chronograf template variables.

> For example, the following query uses [dashboard variables](/influxdb/v2.0/visualize-data/variables/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following query uses [dashboard variables](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/visualize-data/variables/)
```

and string concatenation to define a region to filter by.
Because `filter()` uses string concatenation inline, it can't push its operation
to the underlying data source and loads all data returned from `range()` into memory.

```js
from(bucket: "db/rp")
  |> range(start: -1h)                      
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r.region == v.provider + v.region)
```

To dynamically set filters and maintain the pushdown ability of the `filter()` function,
use variables to define filter values outside of `filter()`:

```js
region = v.provider + v.region

from(bucket: "db/rp")
  |> range(start: -1h)                      
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r.region == region)
```

## Avoid short window durations
Windowing (grouping data based on time intervals) is commonly used to aggregate and downsample data.
Increase performance by avoiding short window durations.
More windows require more compute power to evaluate which window each row should be assigned to.
Reasonable window durations depend on the total time range queried.

## Use "heavy" functions sparingly
The following functions use more memory or CPU than others.
Consider their necessity in your data processing before using them:

> - [map()](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/map/)

Reviewer: update link to -> /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: The flux stdlib docs live under 2.0, so this looks fine to me.

Author: Yeah, these don't exist in 1.x. All the Flux stdlib docs are in 2.0 and cloud and will be until the Flux restructure goes live. These links will get updated as part of the work.

- [reduce()](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/aggregates/reduce/)
- [join()](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/join/)
- [union()](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/union/)
- [pivot()](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/pivot/)

> {{% note %}}

Reviewer: should we remove this for Enterprise.... as we should advance this for each maintenance release and we know what the list is?

> {{% note %}}
> We're continually optimizing Flux and this list may not represent its current state.
> {{% /note %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Use set() instead of map() when possible

> [`set()`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/set/),

Reviewer: update link to ->  /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: same as above

> [`experimental.set()`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/experimental/set/),

Reviewer: update link to -> /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: The flux stdlib docs live under 2.0, so this looks fine to me...

> and [`map`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/map/)

Reviewer: update link to -> /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: same as above

can each set columns value in data, however **set** functions have performance
advantages over `map()`.

Use the following guidelines to determine which to use:

- If setting a column value to a predefined, static value, use `set()` or `experimental.set()`.
- If dynamically setting a column value using **existing row data**, use `map()`.

#### Set a column value to a static value
The following queries are functionally the same, but using `set()` is more performant than using `map()`.

```js
data
  |> map(fn: (r) => ({ r with foo: "bar" }))

// Recommended
data
  |> set(key: "foo", value: "bar")
```

#### Dynamically set a column value using existing row data
```js
data
  |> map(fn: (r) => ({ r with foo: r.bar }))
```

## Balance time range and data precision
To ensure queries are performant, balance the time range and the precision of your data.
For example, if you query data stored every second and request six months worth of data,

> results would include ≈15.5 million points per series.  Depending on the number of series returned after `filter()`([cardinality](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#series-cardinality)), this can quickly become many billions of points.

Reviewer: update this link for the enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/  glossary location. 

/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/concepts/glossary/#series-cardinality

> results would include ≈15.5 million points per series.  Depending on the number of series returned after `filter()`([cardinality](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#series-cardinality)), this can quickly become many billions of points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
results would include ≈15.5 million points per series.  Depending on the number of series returned after `filter()`(see [cardinality](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/concepts/glossary/#series-cardinality)), this can quickly become many billions of points.
```

Flux must store these points in memory to generate a response. Use [pushdowns](#pushdown-functions-and-function-combinations) to optimize how many points are stored in memory.

> To query data over large periods of time, create a task to [downsample data](/influxdb/v2.0/process-data/common-tasks/downsample-data/), and then query the downsampled data instead.

Reviewer: not sure we have a link for this in /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Author: Removed.

## Measure query performance with Flux profilers

> Use the [Flux Profiler package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/profiler/)

Reviewer: not sure we have a link for this in /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: The flux stdlib docs live under 2.0, so this looks fine to me...

to measure query performance and append performance metrics to your query output.
The following Flux profilers are available:

- **query**: provides statistics about the execution of an entire Flux script.
- **operator**: provides statistics about each operation in a query.

Import the `profiler` package and enable profilers with the `profile.enabledProfilers` option.

```js
import "profiler"

option profiler.enabledProfilers = ["query", "operator"]

// Query to profile
```

> For more information about Flux profilers, see the [Flux Profiler package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/profiler/).

Reviewer: not sure we have a link for this in /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/ ??

Reviewer 2: The flux stdlib docs live under 2.0, so this looks fine to me...
